♪ [music]  ♪
We have some data being loaded into our
state. You can see we've got fish1
through 9 here. We need to actually
figure out how to display it right under
the header here. I've opened up my app.js
component and I'm going to give myself
an unordered list with class of "list-of-fishes".
Inside of that, we want to have
like a list item for every single fish
that we have.
However, earlier I told you
it's probably not a great idea
just to render it out
inside of this render() function,
because what happens if I want to use
that fish somewhere else in this
application? What we need to do...and
hopefully, you're screaming at the scream
right now, and you're saying, "Make a
component, Wes! Make a component." Good.
We're doing it. We're going to go to our
components and we're going to make a new
one called fish.js, we're going to
import React from 'react', and we're going
to create a component, then we'll export
it. Now, what do we need in here?
We need a render() function, and inside of
that, we'll have a list item,
which has a className of "menu-fish". And
inside of that, let's just put an emoji
fish, right? Whatever one you wish. Now,
we'll go into our app here and we will
import that emoji fish from...just take
the Inventory one and I'll call it "Fish".
And instead of actually directly rendering
out a list item, we're going to render a
'Fish' tag, right? It even looks like a
fish. Look at this little tail on it.
We got one error. Let's work through that.
Let's see what's going on.
"Invariant Violation: Fish.render(): A valid
React element (or null) must be returned."
What did we do here? Oh, we didn't return
this, right? So you can't just put some
JSX inside of your render() function, you
need to return the actual JSX that we have
here. That should do it for us.
I've got one Fish component being rendered
out, but I need to loop over every single
element in my state. And JSX has no logic
built into it. There's no loops,
or "if" statements, or anything like that in
JSX. And the way that you do that,
if you want loops or logic inside of JSX,
is that you just use regular JavaScript.
So what you do is you simply just use
curly brackets, and that tells JavaScript
or tells React that we're going to be
running a little bit of JavaScript here.
And then we will loop on every single one.
Now, normally, the way that you loop over
something in React is you use .map().
However, 'map' is for an array,
and our state is an object, so one thing
that we can do is use 'Object.keys()'.
And if you've never used 'Object.keys()',
let me show you what it's going to do real
quick. Let's find our App component here,
and we'll go to our console,
so I've clicked it. When we go to our
console, "$r" will give us our actual App,
"$r.state" will give us our state,
"$r.state.fishes" will give us the actual
object. However, I can't really...let's
load some sample fishes in there and run
that again. There we go. I can't really
loop over that, however, if I wrapped that
whole thing in 'Object.keys()',
it actually returns to me an array of
all of the keys or all of the property
names from that object.
And that is something that I can then loop
over. I'll say, "Object.keys()"...
"this.state.fishes", and then I can map
over it. And if you've never used 'map'
before, it's just a way to loop over an
array of stuff and return a second array.
I'm going to call .map() on it and put
this on its own line if you like that.
And for each of them, we're going to have
a fish, we'll call it a "key", and we're
going to render out a 'Fish' tag right here.
Now, that's going to be very simple,
we're going to have to add some more stuff
to this 'Fish' tag here,
but simply, by returning...let's put this
is doing this arrow function.
By returning a Fish component, it should
then display it on the actual page for us.
We're going to load some sample fishes in,
and as soon as I click it...aha!
We get a whole bunch of fishes.
Now, a couple of things here, we get a
warning, "Each child in an array or
iterator should have a unique 'key' prop."
The problem here is that,
if we look at our React dev tools here,
open it up, you see that we've got all
these Fish components. And while that
works, React doesn't like you to just have
a whole bunch of Fish components that look
exactly the same, because it doesn't know
how to update them. Let's say, fish4
were to get updated, it needs to know that
it should only update fish4, not have to
look at the rest of them.
What we'll need to do here is we just set
a key, and the key can be absolutely
anything as long as you know that it is
unique. And what is unique?
We can actually, just use the key here.
Let's say "key=",
and let's see how it does for us, load
some sample fishes in, good,
and it's no longer yelling at us.
And then the other thing that we need to
do is we need to get,
not all of the fishes, but we need to get
this one fish, whatever fish that we
currently have, we need to pass all of the
data about the fish to our 'Fish'.
And we're going to pass that via the
'details' props. We'll say,
"details=",
that's all of the fishes.
But we just want to pass one, so we'll use
square bracket, "key",
and that will be the equivalent of saying,
".fish1", or ".fish2", etc.,  etc.
But by using 'key',
it will go through it.
Now, if we load in some sample fishes
here, and open our React dev tools,
and we'd look for all of our Fish
components. Aha! Let's just click on any
one of them. You should now see, they have
a key of "fish4" and then the 'props' that got
passed down have one prop, it's a detail,
and inside that, we have description,
image, name, price, and status
of that fish. Good!
What we just did, let's do a quick review.
If you want to loop over something,
you first need an array, so that's what we
did, 'Object.keys()'. And then you can loop
over something in the standard way to loop
over something. In React,
just use .map() because it will take in
something, like a list of keys,
and return something else, like a list of
Fish components that have been set-up with
the proper 'key' in details.
We can go into our fish.js and just start
writing some actual HTML.
If I want to put a variable inside of JSX
here, I simply just need to use curly
brackets. And if I say
"this.props.details.name",
that should give us the name
for each of the fish.
Load it in. Aha! Good! "Pacific Halibut,
"Lobster, Sea Scallops." So we are able to
just then template it out. Let's actually
start with an 'img' tag,
and inside the 'img', if you want the
source, it's going to be
"this.props.details.image", you might
think, "Okay, I've got the quotes." And
then I say, "this.props.details.image". But
watch what what happens when I actually do
that. It gives a whole bunch of broken
'img's. And if I were to inspect one of
them, "this.props", it actually says,
"",
so that's not really what we want. If you
are setting an attribute of a tag to be
something that is a variable, you do not
need the actual quotes there.
That will give it...and same with the 'alt',
if I want to put the actual name of the
fish in the 'alt', we just do
"alt=",
load it in. Look at this, we've got all of
our fish pictures showing up,
and if I were to just Inspect Element on
one of these, you'll see the 'alt' is equal
to the name. Now, typing
"this.props.details", every single time,
that gets a little bit overwhelming.
What you can do is, before you return, you
can do a little bit of data massaging.
I like to do a little bit something like
this. I'll say, "const details =
"this.props.details", or you can even use
ES6 destructuring if you've seen one of my
destructuring videos before. You can say
" =  this.props;". Now,
we just have this 'details' variable and we
can cut out the "this.props" from each of
them, makes it a little bit cleaner to do,
something like that.
Let's work through the rest of them. We'll
say 'h3' tag, className of "fish-name",
inside of that, we want to have
"", and we want a 'span' with a
class of "price", and that is going to
have our "" inside of it.
You need a paragraph with the
"details.description", and then we need a
button that we'll add to order.
This isn't going to work just yet,
but we're going to give
ourselves an empty button that says,
"Add To Order." Good.
We've just scaffolded that out. I'm going
to load some sample fishes in, looking
pretty good to me. Really just a couple
things here. This formatting is just in
cents, I like that whenever I work with
money, I always keep my values in cents,
so you're not dealing with decimal places
or anything like that.
But we need to display it to our actual
user. You actually need to format it
nicely. And you'll remember that we have
this helpers file, and inside that
helpers file, there's a formatPrice()
function that does all the heavy-lifting
for us, so what we can do is we can just
import that formatPrice() function from our
'helpers', and then we can wrap our
"" in that function,
formatPrice(). Because this is just
JavaScript at the end of the day. There's
no special templating here that needs to
happen. Anything in these curly brackets
can be run as JavaScript.
Load them in. There we go.
Nice formatting being added on here.